<!-- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022-2023 Golioth, Inc. -->
<!-- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Common Ground Electronics <https://cgnd.dev> -->
<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Hackster Water Level Sensor

This repository contains the firmware source code for the Hackster Water Level Sensor project.

This firmware was originally generated from `v1.6.0` of the [Golioth Thingy91 Example Program](https://github.com/golioth/thingy91-golioth) template, which is based on  `v0.18.1` of the [Golioth Firmware SDK](https://github.com/golioth/golioth-firmware-sdk).

## How it works

The device uses an accelerometer to measure the angle (relative to the Earth's surface) of a buoy attached to a stationary single-degree-of-freedom pivot arm. By measuring the component of gravity along each axis of the accelerometer, the tilt angle can be calculated.

## Supported Hardware

-  [Nordic Thingy:91 X](https://www.nordicsemi.com/Products/Development-hardware/Nordic-Thingy-91-X)

## Golioth Features

This app implements the following features provided by Golioth:

  - [Device Settings Service](https://docs.golioth.io/firmware/golioth-firmware-sdk/device-settings-service)
  - [Stream Client](https://docs.golioth.io/firmware/golioth-firmware-sdk/stream-client)
  - [Over-the-Air (OTA) Firmware Upgrade](https://docs.golioth.io/firmware/golioth-firmware-sdk/firmware-upgrade/firmware-upgrade)
  - [Backend Logging](https://docs.golioth.io/device-management/logging/)

### Settings Service

The following settings should be set in the Device Settings menu of the [Golioth Console](https://console.golioth.io).

  - `LOOP_DELAY_S` Adjusts the delay between sensor readings. Set to an integer value (seconds).

  - `LED_FADE_SPEED_MS` Adjusts the total LED fade time from 0.5 to 10 seconds. Set to an integer value (milliseconds).

    Default value is `1200` milliseconds.

  - `RED_INTENSITY_PCT` Adjusts brightness of onboard red LED. Set to an integer value (percentage).

    Default value is `50` percent.

  - `GREEN_INTENSITY_PCT` Adjusts brightness of onboard green LED. Set to an integer value (percentage).

    Default value is `50` percent.

  - `BLUE_INTENSITY_PCT` Adjusts brightness of onboard blue LED. Set to an integer value (percentage).

    Default value is `50` percent.

### Time-Series Stream data

Sensor data is sent to Golioth periodically based on the `LOOP_DELAY_S` device setting. Data may be viewed in the [Golioth Console](https://console.golioth.io) by viewing the LightDB Stream tab of the device, or the in the Project's Monitor section on the left sidebar.

Below you will find sample stream data generated by this application.

``` json
{
  "accel": {
    "pitch": -0.0436065803628393,
    "roll": -3.3596322179104163,
    "x": 0.007353,
    "y": 0.566181,
    "z": -9.644684999999999
  }
}
```

### OTA Firmware Update

This application includes the ability to perform Over-the-Air (OTA) firmware updates. To do so, you need a binary compiled with a different version number than what is currently running on the device.

> [!NOTE]
>
> If a newer release is available than what your device is currently running, you may download the pre-compiled binary that ends in `_update.bin` and use it in step 2 below.

1.  Update the version number in the `VERSION` file and perform a pristine (`-p`) build to incorporate the version change.
2.  Upload the `build/app/zephyr/zephyr.signed.bin` file as a Package in your Golioth project.
      - Use `thingy91x` as the package name (this package name is defined in `boards/thingy91x_nrf9151_ns.conf`).
      - Use the same version number from step 1.
3.  Create a Cohort for your device type (e.g. `thingy91x`)
4.  Create a Deployment for your Cohort using the package name and version number from step 2.
5.  Devices in your Cohort will automatically upgrade to the most recently deployed firmware.

Visit [the Golioth Docs OTA Firmware Upgrade page](https://docs.golioth.io/firmware/golioth-firmware-sdk/firmware-upgrade/firmware-upgrade) for more info.

## Add Pipeline to Golioth

Golioth uses [Pipelines](https://docs.golioth.io/data-routing) to route stream data. This gives you flexibility to change your data routing without requiring updated device firmware.

When sending stream data, you must enable a pipeline in your Golioth project to configure how that data is handled. Add the contents of `pipelines/cbor-to-lightdb-with-path.yml` as a new pipeline as follows (note that this is the default pipeline for new projects and may already be present):

1.  Navigate to your project on the Golioth web console.
2.  Select `Pipelines` from the left sidebar and click the `Create` button.
3.  Give your new pipeline a name and paste the pipeline configuration into the editor.
4.  Click the toggle in the bottom right to enable the pipeline and then click `Create`.

All data streamed to Golioth in CBOR format will now be routed to LightDB Stream and may be viewed using the web console. You may change this behavior at any time without updating firmware simply by editing this pipeline entry.

## Development environment set up

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Do not clone this repo using git. Zephyr's `west` meta tool should be used to set up your local workspace.

### Install the Python virtual environment (recommended)

``` shell
cd ~
mkdir hackster-water-level-sensor
python -m venv hackster-water-level-sensor/.venv
source hackster-water-level-sensor/.venv/bin/activate
pip install wheel west ecdsa
```

### Use `west` to initialize and install

``` shell
cd ~/hackster-water-level-sensor
west init -m git@github.com:cgnd/hackster-water-level-sensor.git .
west update
west zephyr-export
pip install -r deps/zephyr/scripts/requirements.txt
```

## Building the application

Prior to building, update the `VERSION` file to reflect the firmware version number you want to assign to this build. Then run the following commands to build and program the firmware onto the device.

> [!WARNING]
>
> You must perform a pristine build (use `-p` or remove the `build` directory) after changing the firmware version number in the `VERSION` file for the change to take effect.

### Build the firmware for the Thingy:91 X

``` text
cd ~/hackster-water-level-sensor/app
west build -p -b thingy91x/nrf9151/ns --sysbuild
west flash --erase
```

## Provision the device

Configure PSK-ID and PSK using the device shell based on your Golioth credentials and reboot:

``` text
uart:~$ settings set golioth/psk-id <my-psk-id@my-project>
uart:~$ settings set golioth/psk <my-psk>
uart:~$ kernel reboot cold
```

